We are an insurance company that cares.
We believe remarkable things happen when people care. Travelers takes on the risk and provides the coverage and service you need to help protect the things that are important to you – your home, your car, your valuables and your business. Over the past 170+ years, we have earned a reputation as one of the best property casualty insurers in the industry because of our extraordinary dedication to our customers and our communities.

Our deep risk expertise, focus on innovation and sense of responsibility to the people we are privileged to serve have made us a leader in personal, business and specialty insurance and the only property casualty company in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. Our more than 30,000 employees and 15,000 independent agents and brokers in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland help bring peace of mind to our customers.  

Reducing risk with business insurance
No matter what industry you are in, your company faces risk every day. That's why Travelers offers a wide range of business insurance options, designed to identify and reduce those risks. Beyond managing claim costs, we help companies prepare for risk and recover faster after an unexpected event.  Managing the total cost of risk creates a competitive advantage, helping you protect and grow your business.

More than 170 years of history
We have been around for more than 170 years and have earned a reputation as one of the best property casualty insurers in the industry because we take care of our customers.

The founding of Travelers
In 1864, Hartford businessman James G. Batterson met a local banker, James E. Bolter, in the post office. Bolter had heard that Batterson and several fellow townsmen were organizing a company to introduce accident insurance to the United States. He asked Batterson how much he would charge to insure him for his four-block walk home. “Two cents,” Batterson said.

Today, that two-cent “premium” is a souvenir treasured by Travelers. Batterson served as president of Travelers from our founding on April 1, 1864, until his death in 1901.



The founding of the St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company
After recognizing the need for a local insurance company to deal with the increasing threat of fire, Alexander Wilkin, secretary of the Minnesota Territory, and 16 other St. Paul businessmen established the St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company. The company paid its first claim in 1855 after a fire spread from a bakery to an adjacent row of offices.

In 1968, St. Paul Fire and Marine Insurance Company formed The St. Paul Companies, Inc.



Our joint history
The St. Paul and Travelers merged on April 1, 2004, to form one of the largest property casualty insurers and financial services firms: The St. Paul Travelers Companies, Inc.

In February 2007, we changed our name to The Travelers Companies, Inc.



Company firsts and other milestones
We have a history of “firsts” – demonstrating our ability to adapt to changing times while maintaining a steadfast commitment to our customers. We are often one or two steps ahead of the industry, consistently offering innovative products and ideas.

1864: *Introduced accident insurance.
1889: Offered liability insurance to employers, known today as workers compensation.
1897: *Issued an automobile insurance policy.
1903: *Opened an insurance school.
1904: *Organized a corps of safety engineers.
1919: *Offered aircraft liability insurance, with a full aviation program.
1919: The Travelers Tower was built in Hartford, Connecticut, and stood as the tallest building in New England at the time. The Tower celebrated its 100th anniversary in 2019 – learn more here.
1956: *Established a weather research center.
1958: *Offered life insurance to women at lower rates than men.
1961: *Introduced a new coverage option for electronic data processing.
1968: *Pioneered the “CAT Van,” a specially modified RV used as a mobile claim office to assist policyholders after disasters.
1969: *Issued accident policies for space flight and lunar exploration.
1971: *Established the Office of Consumer Information, providing all consumers, not just Travelers customers, with a toll-free number, to call and comment on insurance issues or ask insurance-related questions.
1980: *Installed an interactive company/insurance agency computer system.
1997: *Launched an insurance policy to protect individuals who use personal computers for online banking.
1999: *Offered Identity Fraud Expense Reimbursement.
2006: *Offered a discount nationally to drivers of hybrid vehicles.
2007: Became the title sponsor of the Travelers Championship.
2009: Added to the Dow Jones Industrial Average, making Travelers the only property casualty insurance company and one of only a few financial services companies in the Dow.
2016: *Created the Early Severity Predictor, the first predictive model to help injured employees avoid chronic pain and opioid use.
2017: *Introduced ZoneCheck®, a first-of-its-kind online tool to help customers identify areas surrounding a job site that could be affected by vibrations from heavy equipment.
2018: Offered a new stand-alone cyber insurance product for organizations of all sizes in the United Kingdom and Ireland to provide liability and first-party cover for losses from cyberattacks.
2018: Partnered with Cedars-Sinai, Samsung Electronics America, Bayer and AppliedVR to explore the effectiveness of a digital pain-reduction kit that uses therapeutic virtual reality and wearable technology as a non-pharmacological supplement.
2018: Introduced MyTravelers® for Injured Employees, a web-based and mobile-friendly self-service tool for workers compensation claims.
2018: *Partnered with Amazon to launch digital storefront.
2019: *Offered enhanced cyber coverage to help customers avoid experiencing a repeat breach.
2019: Announced The Travelers Paying It Forward Savings Program, helping employees save for retirement while tackling student debt.
2019: Introduced Risk Toolworks™, a mobile app for business customers, allowing them to access tools, guides and resources to manage risk.
2019: Established a new comprehensive Life Sciences practice, offering insurance and risk management solutions across the fields of pharmaceuticals, medical devices and digital health.
2019: Offered independent agents real-time customer alerts through the EZLynx Management System.
2019: Offered customers the option to receive digital claim payments through PayPal®.
2019: Implemented new 3-D technology from HOVER to assist in assessing property damage after a catastrophe.
2019: Introduced the Catastrophe Map Viewer, providing agents and brokers with before-and-after photos of areas affected by disasters.
2019: Partnered with Groundspeed Analytics, Inc. to use artificial intelligence to simplify the new business and policy renewal process.

United by a common purpose
Diversity and inclusion is not just an initiative at Travelers; it is at the core of who we are and how we take care of our customers, our communities and each other.

We share a commitment to embracing the power of our differences to continue to build an inclusive culture where voices are heard and experiences are valued. Our diverse perspectives help fuel innovation, connect with our communities and foster a greater sense of belonging.

We believe our 33,000 employees’ unique experiences and ideas strengthen us and continue to drive our success. As we build for the future, we must maintain our talent advantage by attracting and retaining the best employees from the broadest possible pool. For that reason, diversity and inclusion has always been a business imperative for us.

We believe remarkable things happen when people care. Travelers 
takes on the risk and provides the coverage and service you need 
to help protect the things that are important to you – your home, 
your car, your valuables and your business. Over the past 170+ 
years, we have earned a reputation as one of the best property 
casualty insurers in the industry because of our extraordinary 
dedication to our customers and our communities. 
Our deep risk expertise, focus on innovation and sense of 
responsibility to the people we are privileged to serve have made us 
a leader in personal, business and specialty insurance and the only 
property casualty company in the Dow Jones Industrial Average. 
Our more than 30,000 employees and 15,000 independent agents 
and brokers in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom and 
Ireland help bring peace of mind to our customers.
 Competitive advantages
 • Considerable financial strength.
 • Total assets of approximately $126 billion and shareholders’ 
equity of approximately $25 billion as of Dec. 31, 2023.
 • Total revenue of approximately $41 billion in 2023.
 • The No. 1 writer of workers compensation insurance in the  
United States.1
 • The second-largest commercial insurance carrier in the  
United States.2
 • A top-10 writer of personal insurance in the United States.3
 Business segments 
Business Insurance offers a broad array of property and casualty 
insurance products and services to its customers. Primarily an 
insurer in the United States, Travelers also provides products and 
services in Canada, the United Kingdom, Ireland and other parts of 
the world, including as a corporate member of Lloyd’s.
 Bond & Specialty Insurance offers surety bonds, fidelity, 
management liability, professional liability and other property 
and casualty coverages and related risk management services to 
its customers in the United States. Bond & Specialty Insurance 
also offers surety bonds and certain specialty insurance products 
in Canada, the United Kingdom and Ireland, as well as surety 
bonds through a joint venture in Brazil.
 • Superior depth and breadth of product offerings with a strong 
underwriting focus.
 • Exceptional service delivered by applying innovative claim and risk 
control services.
 • Strong distribution with broad geographic presence across the 
United States and selected international markets.
 Commercial market share ranking
 Ranks4
 Personal Insurance offers a broad range of property and casualty 
insurance products and services covering individuals’ personal 
risks, primarily in the United States, as well as in Canada. Personal 
Insurance’s primary products of automobile and homeowners 
insurance are complemented by a broad suite of coverages such as 
boat, yacht and umbrella.
 Ranked No. 1: Alabama, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Mississippi, Nevada, New Jersey, 
New Mexico, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Wisconsin  
and Wyoming.
 Ranked No. 2: Arizona, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, District of Columbia, 
Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, New York,  
Rhode Island, South Carolina, Utah, Virginia and West Virginia.
 Ranked No. 3: Iowa, New Hampshire, Vermont and Washington.
 Ranked No. 4: Kansas, Maine, Nebraska, Ohio, Oregon and Texas.
 Ranked No. 5: Idaho and Montana.
 Ranked lower than No. 5: Alaska, Delaware, Florida, Hawaii, North Dakota and   
South Dakota.
 1S&P Global Market Intelligence 2023 U.S. Statutory DWP: Workers Compensation based on TRV definitions.
 2S&P Global Market Intelligence 2023 U.S. Statutory DWP: Commercial Insurance based on TRV definitions. 
3S&P Global Market Intelligence 2023 U.S. Statutory DWP: Personal Insurance based on TRV definitions.  
4Source: SNL Statutory Filings. Based on 2023 Direct Written Premium. Market share includes all NAIC-reported lines of business, excluding: Farmowners Multiple Peril, Homeowners Multiple Peril, Other Private Passenger 
 Auto Liability, Private Passenger Auto No-Fault (Personal Injury Protection), Private Passenger Auto Physical Damage and Combined Accident & Health Business. Includes District of Columbia. 
In the community
 We have a responsibility to be good corporate citizens and  
actively contribute to the vitality and resilience of the communities 
we serve. Below are just a few examples of our commitment:
 • In 2023, Travelers and the Travelers Foundation provided more 
than $24 million in charitable support, for a total of approximately 
$234 million over the past decade.
 • Travelers employees dedicated more than 100,000 hours of 
their time volunteering in 2023. Among other initiatives, they 
participated in Habitat for Humanity® builds, served as mentors  
to students and supported organizations that promote arts  
and culture.
 • Travelers is the proud title sponsor of the Travelers 
Championship®, a best-in-class PGA TOUR® event that has 
generated tens of millions of dollars for charity since Travelers 
became title sponsor in 2007.